Why don't you go over there
and use the doorbell?
- Why aren't there more of you?
- Well. it is summer vacation.
Maybe you need a search warrant.
I have probable cause.
so I don't need it. Thank you.
- What's he doing now?
- Don't worry. He's the police. it's okay.
Oleg. be quiet.
Listen to me.
If your mother wakes up.
I'll be forced to kill her.
Do you understand?
We have to help each other.
We're going on a little trip.
Put a jacket on.
Come on. Hurry up.
Oleg?
Oleg!
Oleg. You don't need to worry. okay.
Willy.
Harry?
- How did you get in here?
- The balcony door was open.
What do you want? What's going on?
I think you already know that.
No.
We're here to take you in.
Who's "we"? You're all alone.
Are you drunk or what?
Marius Veland.
Camilla Loen.
Lisbeth Barli.
Barbara Svendsen.
I have no idea what you're talking about!
- Dispatch. go ahead.
- This is Rakel Fauke.
My son's been kidnapped.
I see. Why do you think so?
Someone's been in my bed.
and he's not here. so I just know.
And he's put on his Rosenborg jersey.
He hates that jersey.
He'd never put it on if he wasn't doing
that to tell me that something was wrong.
Take it easy now.
A jersey doesn't have to mean--
I've worked in the police.
I know the protocol
for reporting a missing person.
and I know that someone's taken him.
It still doesn't mean--
Yes. he's done it to tell me
that something is wrong!
You should never have given us...
Lisbeth's finger.
The excrements we found under her nail.
we found seeds in it.
Fennel seeds from Theatercaféen.
Yes. where you ate
the morning Lisbeth disappeared.
And the problem with that is
that it takes at least 12 hours
for that seed to reach
the end of your colon.
No matter how much she finger-fucked you.
those seeds must have ended up
under her nail after she disappeared.
What does that mean?
That you killed her. cut off her finger.
put it in your ass before we got here.
That's what we call technical evidence.
Technical evidence.
So that's a concrete
and irrefutable fact. is it?
Okay.
I realized when you got here
that you'd have a dog. right?
So I realized that it was
the best hiding spot for her finger.
Clever.
And then there was a certain degree
of sentimentality.
The picture...
I didn't realize that the picture
was from Staromák Square.
But then I saw another picture today
with the same two towers.
Aminov used to hunt women there.
Women who could support him financially.
Women like your wife.
That's when I realized why.
You discovered that Lisbeth
had started a relationship with Aminov
during your honeymoon in Prague.
isn't that right?
You just wanted revenge.
You wanted revenge on both of them.
I knew that Lisbeth had a...
short relationship with that man.
But I didn't realize
until we were renovating the apartment.
That's when I found two letters.
"My darling. The light of my loins."
"You are always on my mind."
"Next time we're making love
in a canopy bed. Not in a backyard."
"You deserve more than what you write."
"About a marriage that's a practical
convenience in a loveless life."
"As I told you.
I've been cheated in business deals."
"I need to borrow some more money.
To get me back on my feet."
"As soon as it's settled
I will come get you."
"My account number is
on the back of the photo."
I remember him from Prague
four years ago. when he came over
to sell us some necklaces
with star shaped diamonds.
We got a card with an address.
in case we wanted to order something.
How do you think it feels when you
realize that the person you love...
not only betrays you
but isn't even capable of loving you?
And the other letter?
She'd written that one.
It was stamped in the Czech Republic.
It had been returned
due to the address being unknown.
"Dear Martin. It's been so long
since I've heard from you."
"I hope that the money I sent you helped."
"I still can't think
of anything else but you."
"When I make love to my husband.
I imagine that he is you."
"Where are you?"
But that wasn't the worst part.
That was seeing the postage date.
Because she'd sent it...
in February.
This year.
What was I supposed to do?
So you staged the murder of your wife.
And put the blame on him.
Quite the directorial feat.
Yes. but first I had to find him.
When I said that I was
after star shaped diamonds
and which hotel I was staying at...
all I had to do was sit and wait.
[Swedish] I told him
that I needed a man
who could get me the diamond and weapons
with no middleman.
[Norwegian] And then we made a deal
that he would come to Oslo
and put his stuff in a garbage can
in Frogner Park every five days.
So you knew he was there. and he didn't
have an alibi for when you were killing.
You repeated this four times.
You recorded messages in Swedish on tapes
that you left at the crime scenes...
[Swedish] A pentagonal cross.
Ask me a question.
and I'll give you an answer.
...and sent us your wife's finger.
Why did it have to be so complicated?
Because I needed a scapegoat.
If this case wasn't solved
and Lisbeth simply was missing.
everyone would have thought it was me.
Right? Because it's always the husband.
Where is she?
You tell me.
Fine.
Sit down. put that down.
throw it away! Throw it away!
Sit down!
That's how she reacted too.
I'm just a simple man
who followed his heart.
But can you tell me
which heart is the more crippled one?
Is it the heart
that can never stop loving.
or is it the heart
that can never love back?
Where is she?
She's here.
She's always here.
That's what you don't understand.
I've put her in a place that only I know.
Somewhere that's only for me and for her.
And I want her here forever.
I've preserved her in alcohol. Harry.
My problem is that I tried to do it again.
But she doesn't understand.
What are you talking about?
Okay. get up.
- What are you talk--
- I said. get up!
Turn around.
The new Lisbeth...
panicked.
She threatened to ruin everything.
just like you.
Isn't she beautiful?
Huh?
Look.
All the way down.
Hey. listen--
This show deserves a proper ending.
The audience will never accept
that I'll just come quietly
with you to the station.
It needs a happy ending.
If I don't have a happy ending.
I'll make one.
That is my life's motto.
In this case...
my death motto.
Let's count down from... five...
You're so broken.
Four...
What the fuck are you looking at?
It's not your job
that's the problem. it's you.
Three...
You and I had a deal.
Two. Helge!
- Two...
It's me.
Can someone please help me?
Call an ambulance!
God. what has he done?
He's given himself a happy ending.
- Yes?
- Have you heard from him?
- Harry? No.
- Okay.
What the hell are you doing. Tom?
- Let me know if he gets in touch.
- No--
I want to go home.
LOADING
MISSED CALL
CHECK YOUR VOICEMAIL NOW. HARRY.
Fuck.
- Hello?
- It's Harry.
- I've been trying to call you.
- I don't have my cell phone.
- Hey. is Oleg with you?
- No. he's gone.
I'm at the police HQ now.
They're just telling me to wait as there's
no suspicion of foul play but I know it.
I'll find him. okay?
What? Where are you?
- Just go home.
- But Harry. I can't just--
Go home and lock the door.
You're not safe at the police HQ.
Trust me.
You just have to trust me. okay?
Go home. Trust me.
Ready to go home?
Hey. Harry.
Oleg and I are wondering where you are.
If you touch him. I'll kill you.
Where are you?
The question is. where are you?
What do you want?
I just want to make things right.
It's not too late.
Tom. listen--
Give me the address.
Tom. please.
Please?
I gave you an offer that would have
changed your life but instead you do this.
This is on you.
You know the sound
of someone having their throat slit?
The knife cutting through cartilage.
Then there's a wheezing sound.
Tom...
It sounds like when you're at the dentist.
That's when the trachea is severed.
The student dorm. room 406.
The student dorm.
Me and Oleg are coming.
I'll be there in 20 minutes.
Leave the door open.
Sit on the floor so I can see you both.
Tom.
Tom!
Fuck.
Fuck. Stop crying!
Iggy Pop songs
starting with a C. You start.
No. cut it out.
No. not now.
It helps.
You've said that already.
There are two versions.
Breathe.
Show your hands. so he can see them.
Oleg. are you okay?
Of course he's okay.
Are you okay?
- I'm sorry.
- No. no. no.
Stay there. What the fuck is this?
I told you to sit inside the room.
To the handcuffs and to the room.
Spit it out! Spit!
I guess you'll have to change your plan.
What fucking plan?
I'm guessing you were planning
to kill Aminov and myself in there.
Make it look like
I shot him and then myself.
Sound familiar?
Was that what you did to Ellen?
You've forgotten
that your girlfriend just dumped you
and that you kidnapped her son
on your way here.
So he was found alongside you.
and you had this in your pocket.
I knew you would find us.
I just had to make it complicated enough
for you not to suspect anything.
Stop! Oleg! Oleg!
Come back. or I'll shoot Harry.
That's what sucks about summer vacation.
there's almost nobody at work. right?
What are you talking about?
Everything's postponed. for instance
taking down the surveillance cameras here.
I've called Otto. You should wave to him.
We're rolling.
You're finished.
Just give me the gun.
That camera only shows I arrested
a colleague who's lost it
and kidnapped a detainee.
You've just confessed
in front of the camera.
Shut up. Aminov. What are you
talking about? There's no sound.
Hey. take it easy.
Shut up.
Push the button.
You don't stand a chance. Tom.
This is all being filmed.
- There's no camera in the elevator.
- Huh?
Go inside!
Inside. I said!
I found your gun. Harry.
I threw it down the garbage chute.
Go inside.
Come on.
Look. take this.
So fucking clever with the key.
No!
- Help! Harry!
- Stop the elevator.
Harry. help me!
Harry!
I'll kill him. Harry.
Oleg!
Come on. Harry. Send the elevator back up
or I'll blow his head off.
Let go.
Harry. I'm begging you.
Stop the elevator. No. no. no!
- Are you okay?
- Yeah.
- Didn't you swallow the key?
- No. that was the storage key.
He's following us!
Okay. guys. Take the elevator back up
and stop between two floors.
I'll be back. I promise. I'll be back.
- Mom.
- Oh. God.
Honey.
Are you okay?
- Are you sure?
- Yeah.
Is it over?
It's over for now.
Okay.
Were you scared?
It was fine because Harry was there.
Yeah. I have to...
I'm afraid I have to go.
Are you sure?
You're better off without me.
I think I can decide that for myself.
Come back when you're done.
I'll call... I'll try to call you when I'm...
Yeah.
Yeah. that's how forensics want it.
We've ID'd the body in the apartment
and called it in.
It's Toya Harang.
Good evening. boss.
You know hell's going to break loose
for you now. right?
All sorts of media
will want a piece of you.
Even abroad. They've heard about
the Bike Courier Killer even in America.
Yeah. I think I'll survive.
Anyway. Martin Aminov is back in his cell.
We thought it was safest to keep him there
until we know more tomorrow.
One more thing.
Tell Harry that.
Yeah. that's an Iggy Pop song. boss.
Yeah. okay.
That's right. your buddy Eikeland
was also in custody.
but we've let him out now.
He's safe and sound.
If you don't tell anyone.
there's a chance I might have been
ever so slightly intoxicated.
I've spoken to Internal Affairs.
and they are thinking that
the recordings from the student dorm.
as well as Aminov's and Oleg's statements.
will be more than enough.
You won't get in trouble
for Waaler's death.
But I can't promise what Sjølid will do
about you taking Aminov out of custody
and breaking into Willy Barli's apartment.
I've got to go. boss.
Maya speaking.
Hi. this is Harry Hole.
Wait. Don't tell me where you are.
My phone could be bugged.
Yes. I'm sure it is.
I'm sorry. I didn't know what to do.
They threatened to take my brother.
Yes. I thought it would be
something like that.
But here's your chance to make it right.
I'll give you a story now
that Aftenposten may publish.
But only. and only if something happens
to me or my loved ones.
And yeah. if your phone is bugged.
then everybody knows about this now.
The cause of death is clear but I don't
quite understand the stab wounds.
That must have been the chisel.
But this looks more like
it's been inflicted post-mortem.
I mean. it's like
a knife has been twisted around.
I need you to give me an explanation.
For why I took Aminov out of custody.
or why I broke into Barli's apartment?
No. no. Jesus.
We'll take care of that.
More...
the idea.
How did you figure out
that this wasn't a typical serial killer?
Thanks.
I'm not talking about the evidence.
I'm talking about the idea itself.
Did you know that Duke Ellington
used to ask his piano tuners
to not tune the piano pitch perfect?
No.
The Bike Courier Killer
was too fine-tuned.
It felt right. but not genuine.
I was wrong. Harry.
I'm sorry about that.
Right.
What I really wanted to say.
was that I'm not going
to sign your dismissal paperwork.
No?
You don't exactly sound thrilled.
Have you gotten any other offers?
Yeah. two.
From whom?
Øystein Eikeland wants us
to drive his taxi together.
And the other?
It didn't pan out.
The truth is that we need you.
I need you.
Okay?
It would be entirely naïve to think
that Waaler is the only police officer
involved in all of this.
I would like for you to keep helping us
finding out who's behind it all.
I don't really know if I...
Nobody wants to snitch
on their own. I get that.
But you will be reporting only to me.
that much I promise.
But that would also mean
that when you write your reports.
and when you talk to the press.
we have to keep everything
about Waaler's weapons smuggling
under wraps.
I know that it is a lot to ask.
so of course it's totally up to you.
I see.
If you do choose to become a taxi driver.
is there anything that Waaler said
about whom could potentially be involved?
Did he mention any names?
Anything we can work with?
No.
Good work with Barli.
It's always the husband.
Because I needed a scapegoat.
If this case hadn't been solved
and Lisbeth disappeared.
everyone would have thought it was me.
To me. it looks as if he's telling her
that he's going to shoot her.
It's me.
Right? It's always the husband.
Hi.
Hi. it's me.
There's something I need to do.
Could we do dinner instead?
Yeah. no problem.
I love you.
And you love me.
Yes. I do.
Beate Lønn is totally sure?
The husband was never a suspect.
and this was the first time
Beate had seen him. and she is certain.
Yes?
What is this about?
You killed your wife.
You walked into the bank where she worked
and shot her in the head.
He robbed a bank to shoot his wife?
Staged the whole thing as a...
As a farce. yes. just like Willy Barli.
They staged the murders
so we would look for something else.
A serial killer or a bank robber.
The number you're calling
is no longer in service.
What do we do now?
What we do now. is to lay completely low.
And then... we'll be back.
Yes. this is Tom Waaler.
He grew up down the street.
How did you know him?
I remember feeling sorry for him.
His father was beating him at home and...
There were rumors
that there was more to it.
I think his dad was
an unemployed bricklayer.
He drank quite a lot. and...
I don't remember much more than that.
Yeah. okay.
He called you Solo. and...
Well. he said you were buddies.
Yes. it's true that my nickname is Solo.
after our shop here. but...
me and Tom Waaler were never buddies.
He didn't really have any friends.
None?
No.
I don't really know why.
I remember him as pretty kind. but...
The type who helps old ladies
across the street. A boy scout type. but...
No. he... he was a loner.
A bit weird and...
And then...
Then there was something odd about...
About his dad's death.
Really strange accident to happen at home.
Okay?
Well...
It's one thing to fall down drunk but...
Straight onto a knife he was holding?
Yeah.
Thank you.
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis